---
layout: hardware
title: Workflow
description:
using-kicad: true
permalink: /hardware/automating-kicad/:title
---

##### Using KiCad with OSH Park

I've written a help page on the OSH Park Docs site about things to consider when using KiCad to design a board and create gerbers. 

- <a href="http://docs.oshpark.com/design-tools/kicad/">Using KiCad with OSH Park</a> (general info)
- <a href="http://docs.oshpark.com/design-tools/kicad/generating-kicad-gerbers/">Generating Gerbers and Drills</a> (with screenshots!)

<hr>

##### KiCad Suggested Workflow 

I highly recommend the high-level workflow image in the KiCad Getting Started guide, since it's really does cover all the options. 

<a href="http://docs.kicad-pcb.org/en/getting_started_in_kicad.html">Here's the full getting started guide</a> and <a href="http://docs.kicad-pcb.org/en/images/kicad_flowchart.png">the flowchart</a>.

<hr>

##### My Workflow

I generally use a much simplified flow that matches that chart, with the exception of the GerbView preview images. I use GerbV to check my previews since there are some resolution differences in the drills between GerbView and GerbV, but I know that OSH Park fabrication matches 100% what I see in GerbV. 

You can get the free, open source <a href="http://gerbv.geda-project.org/">GerbV</a> here. It's a part of the gEDA project.

Personally, here's the rough order of how I design in KiCad:

1. I use my script to create the project from a template.
1. Open EESchema and edit the project settings.
1. Create the schematic in EESchema.
1. Add symbols and create them as necessary.
1. Wire everything up.
1. Annotate the schematic.
1. Perform a rule check.
1. Use CvPCB from inside EESchema to associate footprints. 
1. Create footprint in Footprint Editor if necessary.
  - Create a new library
	- Use the Footprint Library Wizard to find the library
	- Select active library
	- Save footprint in active library
1. Generate the netlist in EESchema.
1. Open the layout in PCBNew and edit the project settings.
1. Read Netlist in PCBNew
1. Place the footprints in PCBNew.
1. Add ground and VCC planes where appropriate.
1. Create layout in PCBNew, routing traces and adding text. 
1. Perform Design Rule Check.
1. Create Gerbers using Plot.
1. Inspect Gerbers in GerbV
  - I don't use KiCad's GerbView! I use <a href="http://gerbv.geda-project.org/">gEDA's GerbV</a> for OSH Park!
1. Upload the Gerbers to OSH Park to check preview images. 
1. Make changes (particularly silk/mask) and go to Step 16.
1. Generate the BOM.
1. Order parts, and then, only then:
1. Order boards.
1. Create PDFs if desired.
1. Save the project files and commit to version control.

<hr>

