---
layout: hardware
title: ROUGH Introduction
description:
using-kicad: true
permalink: /hardware/automating-kicad/:title
---

Notes to myself for now, while starting to write.

Using the first person. I'm explaining how and why I did what I did, and I'm not prescribing anything for anyone.

Setting up the program

https://forum.kicad.info/t/linux-default-library-paths/2979/5

# Philosophy

No CAD tool can magically read your mind and create the perfect schematic and layout, so I recommend approaching KiCad with a curious, playful, patient attitude and give it a couple of weeks and several tiny projects to get the hang of it.

It's different from Eagle, gEDA, or DesignSpark, and I've started to really like using it. When in doubt, Google _how to do this nonobvious but better thing in KiCad_ and you'll see that, in most cases, somebody has solved your problem.

I want to design hardware. The transaction cost of sitting down to design hardware needs to be as small as possible. I don't want to have to worry about changing settings, adding my company name to a project, or specifying the license every time. Nine times out of ten, those things will be the same.

I also want to be able to make these boards by hand or to send a batch off to the assembly house, and I want KiCad to be the ultimate truthholder of the board information. The KiCad libraries have part numbers, the schematic has text comments and is designed to be easy to read, the netlist is included, the bill of materials is generated to include the part orientation and position information, the footprints have all the information for the assembly diagram, and clicking Plot creates everything you need for fabricating boards, ordering a stencil, and assembling the board.

The bulk of what I need to spend time and energy on is the design, component selection, and learning new technologies.

